Version control is a system or toool which keeps track of changes to files over time.Some key features are branches, pulling, merging and conflicts.
Github is important in collaboration hosting of repositories, social networks with other programmers and collaboration.


To create a new repository on github, ;ogin to your account, click on your repositroy, then new. Some of the
decisions one will need to make is whether the repository will be public or private, its licensing and so on. Its good 
practise to add a read me file.

The read me file explains what the repositroy is about, what it aims to achieve, its collaborators and so on. 
It helps in collaboration in hat the strucuture and purpose of the repositry is clearly defined , reducing confusion.


Firstly, some private repository futures have to be paid for on Github, which is a disadvantage. For public repositories, 
there is always a security threat since its open source to everyone and anyone. Other than that, for collaborators
private repositories are advantagious, but it comes with limited access, someone out there may be able to improve
upon your code if only you made the repository public!


To commit is to save the chages you made to a local file to a remote file on github. Its simple, assumoing you have already cloned the repository,
click on source control , add a comment , and select commit. Once you commit, you will be able to see all the changes, 
when those changes were made and even comment on those changes. This is why commit is such a key feature in Github.


Branching is important in collaboration as it allows a programmer to work on and edit code from the main branch.

Pull requests basically take a remote file, and allow you to work on it from your local device.Merging 
is combining all the changes into a remote file.This is very convinient.

Forking is useful in contributing to Open Source Projects: Fork the project to make changes and propose
improvements without affecting the original repository. With cloning , you can actually make changes to
a repository by commiting your changes.

Issues and project boards on GitHub are powerful tools for tracking bugs, managing tasks, and improving 
project organization. They facilitate collaboration by providing a structured way to discuss, prioritize,
and monitor progress on various aspects of a project.

Some common challenges Github users face is probably navigating Github. From branches to connecting local to
remote repositories, github can be challenging to navigate for the latest user. It takes time to learn about branches,
sub branches and other lingo used.